Once embodied in the power of workers councils, a power destined to supplant all the other powers worldwide
the proletarian movement becomes its own product.
This product is the producer himself and in his own eyes the producer himself
has himself as his goal
Only in this context can the Spectacle's negation of life be negated in its turn
The Spectacle is not a collection of images rather it is a social relationship between people that is mediated by images
The Spectacle is not a collection of images rather it is a social relationship between people that is mediated by
images
The Spectacle cannot be understood either as a deliberate distortion of the visual world or as a product of the technology of the mass
dissemination of images
Is far better viewed as a weltanschauung that has been actualized
translated into the material realm
a world view transformed into an objective Force
The whole life of those societies in which modern conditions of production prevail presents itself as an immense
accumulation of spectacles
All that once was directly lived has become a mere representation
Images detached from every aspect of life merge into a common stream
and the former unity of life Is lost forever
Apprehended in a partial way, reality unfolds in a new generality as a pseudo world apart
solely as an object of contemplation
the tendency towards the specialisation of images of the world finds it's highest expression in the world of the autonomous image
where deceit deceives itself
The Spectacle in its generality is a concrete inversion of life and as such the autonomous movement of non-life
The Spectacle appears
at once as society itself
as a part of society
and as a means of unification
As a part of society it is that sector where all attention, all consciousness converges
Being isolated and precisely for that reason this sector is the locus of illusion and false consciousness
The unity it imposes is merely the official language of generalized
speculation
The Spectacle appears at once as society itself, as a part of society, and as a means of unification
As a part of society it is that sector where all attention, all consciousness converges
Being isolated and precisely for that reason this sector is the locus of illusion and false consciousness
The unity it imposes is merely the official language of generalized speculation
The phenomenon of separation is part and parcel of the unity of the world, of a global social praxis that is split
up into reality on the one hand and image on the other
Social practice which the Spectacles autonomy challenges
Is also the real totality to which the Spectacle is subordinate
So deep is the rift in this totality however the Spectacle is able to emerge as its apparent goal
The language of the Spectacle is composed of the signs of dominant organisation of production
signs which are at the same time the ultimate end products of that organisation
The Spectacle cannot be set in abstract opposition to concrete social activity, for the dichotomy between reality and image will
survive on either side of any such distinction
Thus the Spectacle, although it turns reality on his head
is itself a product of real activity
Likewise lived reality suffers the material assualtss of the Spectacles mechanisms of contemplation
incorporating the spectacular order and lending that order positive support
rach side therefore has its share of objective reality
and every concept as it takes it's place on one side or the other
has no foundation apart from its transformation into it's opposite
reality erupts within the Spectacle and the Spectacle is real
This reciprocal alienation is the essence and underpinning of society as it exists
In a world that really has been turned on it's head, truth is a moment of falsehood